This is "Technical Difficulties" we play Quote is missing.
Together with me today - he reads books you already know - is Chris Joel!
Benefit to the home team!
All Favorite Gery Brannan: Gary Brannan!
Does this dining chair have a catapult seat, and if so, how?
and the softest man on the internet, Matt Gray!
Hi Youtube!
In front of me I have an article from Wikipedia and the others can't see it
Every fact they get right is a point and a clock sound is heard
and there is a special price for a really good answer that is ...
Today we are talking about Graham Island.
Due to the national shortage of oats in the 1980s when everyone emigrated.
Is that what we in this country would call Digestive Cookie Island?
Oat cookies!
Thank you, one for you boys on the other side of the water.
Ahh, is that what an oat cake is?
Yes, it is digestive.
I did not know.
It is so much digestive.
Are they not just called "English cookies" in Europe because they refuse to accept that they have--
They have nothing to do with your digestion at all.
It is only here in England that we hold onto this false statement.
It's a bit the same as they call it "la cor anglais" and not an English horn.
[French accent] oh, they insane Englishmen
They think everything is about them!
all they say is l * rt over there
Your cookie? L * rt. Your horn? L * rt.
Less than two minutes into the show, in the series
and the nation today, we humiliate France
Hi France!
We need a loop wheel with an arrow that says [click sound] bing!
France!
Just at all, except the one who says 'Germany'.
We will probably reach you
At some point.
Wildly enough, the Germans said to France in '39!
F * ck Morocco
We haven't made it yet
I spread a little love (!)
Listen to this. eritrea
We have you
Graham Island
OK
Is it a man or an island?
It is a real island
There are a few Graham islands by the way, it's not, uhh -
There is a Graham Island of British Columbia, Canada - So the New World - named after someone.
It's somewhere in Europe
It is not made of ... what are islands usually made of:
Do you know what - So land?
So that's, no no no, it's not made of land or stone or brick or anything.
- Is it like one of those things that is an oil platform? - Wait a minute, "or brick?"
No, an island is not made of bricks, Gary!
You did it or so good,
.. until you .. 'I give him a point' arhh it's made of brick ... No!
Is it a volcano that is about to happen?
I'll give you a point and I'll give you a cookie for it.
because it's right on.
It is a sunken volcanic island
So it's not? - But it's not an island if it's not over the sea, it is
As in 1831, came across the water for a while
- Long enough to be seen - And then it was slammed.
Yes.
So this volcano had a temporary erection
As someone jumped up, a flag stuck in and it sank under the sea.
I think that's what would happen if it were Poseidon's penis
As it sounds like it is
You get the flag and it says pfft and the whole collapses.
Cold water.
Yes it gets much bigger when -
When El Niño comes because if you understand!
It breaks out once in a while -
I'm sure it does ...
In 1831, the Royal Navy flagship declared it to the British Crown
Where is the island though?
The island is out of Sicily
But that's one of ours?
It's ... Well ..
It was ours in 1841!
Pardon..
31st
Nevertheless...
Come on in July / August 1931, disappeared in ..?
- October, 1831 - 1850s, after Krakatau came up.
Changing the sea level and all that.
It is a wonderful theory, but I was going to the cheap joke: 1832
So. The new island pops up, the English put a flag in it,
Automatically a Starbucks on it.
Automatic. Of course.
Sorry: But Starbucks, from the time, of course
Starbucks (!)
How big was that island?
About the size of a Starbucks.
No, a lot bigger actually
To Starbucks.
Two Starbucks, a McDonalds and a parking lot for nudists.
Points you can get one for it.
It also had two small lakes.
Two lakes? It's not a lake! It's just water that was caught when the island came out of the sea!
Yes, do you know another defination of a lake?
I'd rather ... It's just a damn puddle!
Again...
Why did Graham Island disappear so fast?
It sank?
The oceans rose because of global warming, and the ice caps and all that.
Not so early ...
That's because it was magmatic or continental plate lava, instead of oceanic plate lava, which is very basaltic and hard?
Continental plate lava tends to dry out as much softer stones, so it was eroded much faster.
You are absolutely right, it was composed of very loose volcanic eruptions and -
Simply disappeared into the sea due to rapid erosion through wave activity.
-- Pardon; It is wild work. - Sorry boys ...
Take the points. Take all the points
This one is mine
Put a fork in it here it is finished.
And it eroded before anyone could figure out who actually owned it.
But we had a flag!
Excuse Eddie.
But Her Majesty's flag had been firmly planted and someone had opened a lovely bistro and a restaurant!
I like the idea of ​​Her Majesty's flag, not the flag of the Union. just
"This is my ... F ****** f *** off"
I'm glad you've read the official rules to take and declare a new country that is
one of you dress up as Queen Victoria and say, "F ****** f *** off"
Even if it is not England, still dress up as Queen Victoria.
"I don't enjoy this ..."
France!
Here's another one for you!
Let's talk about that conflict then. Who else thought they had sovereignty over it?
Italy!
But ... did Italy exist at this time?
There it was ...
Sicilians, potentially
It's a point. Yes.
Kingdom of both Sicilies
Where is the other one?
In the quiet Mediterranean, they thought there was another Sicily below.
They spent years making tunnels!
The two Sicilies were the island of Sicily and ... what else?
The bottom of Italy
Yes, you get one point. Completely right.
The bottom half of what we now call Italy
The part they have succeeded in invading, indeed. Let's be honest.
Yes.
So was Italy before, just the upper part?
The whole of Europe was just temporary states for--
That is why they are only loose federal states. As you know, Switzerland is still a loose federation of states.
Yes.
Of course, the best part is the Hellenic Republic.
It was all taken over beautifully.
That's what I thought! I went to Bern for something and on top of the big state building ...
Is that the name of a place instead of the flaming, burning ..?
Bern is a place
It will be called Bern, because in Swiss, Bern means Bjørn.
And they still have bears
in a bear cage
Fantastic tourist attraction
We've caught them all, now they're here
Been to Vauxhall? Just asking.
In a cage!
But, of course, the state building just says, and I didn't know at the time when it was: Helvetica.
And my first thought was, I looked at it and said, No, it's not.
It's New Roman!
So you have the states and other states have a statement on it?
If it is in the middle of the Mediterranean
You probably have one of the Mediterranean states close by
England and Sicily ... Spain also said--
I can do that. Anyone who was close to the Mediterranean:
England.
We are on the map.
That's mine, it's mine
Wait: Gibraltar
CF, claiming in Gibraltar. We are totally close that (!)
"I think you find that means we own this now."
"We own the port therefore we own--"
"What is it? What is it? You can get there? Try it!"
You now have massive battles
with, really amazing petty, but oh my God still quite *** scary fight between Spain and the uk than gibraltar
Basically: not only just moving towards a shipping vessel, trained weapons on it.
Like in that kind of "no, we don't have fun
"If you don't turn around this one goes out
"and Bob here has got an itchy finger. He hasn't had a chance to use one of these for real ..."
"He hasn't shot this since 1982 and he's tired."
"And we all want to see fireworks!"
"Turn around, fister."
What I have learned today is that I know nothing about Europe's history.
Do you know anything about the Bourbon House?
Is that the one in Milan? I'm probably wrong.
France.
Point. [Bond]
Well said.
How wrong can I be all?
European royal family of French origin. What did they want to put on this lump of volcanic rock?
Distillery, if it's bourbon.
Fort!
Hospital!
A palace.
Leper colony.
You are all thinking way ...
BUTLINS!
Point! [Bond]
I really didn't want to say it was a Butlin's. Billy Butlin wasn't really coming and making this concept yet.
[French accent] Biilly Butliin.
But it is a resort.
Is what we have here.
Of course Sicily had another name for the island.
Barry.
Barry Island.
It is actually an island. Aww!
Oh yeah!
Was it like "Giovanni"?
Yes, it was Giovanni's.
Too early.
Guiseppi.
They named it after their king, so it would be called, Ferdinandea.
Still marked on charts, for many, many years. Kind of stayed about eight feet below sea level.
For a long, long time.
What happened in 1987?
It was blown into the air on purpose, so it was less of a danger to shipping?
Yes. I'm going to give you a point to be ...
Yeah!
To be blown up in the air! [Bond]
blown up by accident?
Are, for "s *** s and giggles"?
blown up by mother nature?
I'm going to give Gary [ding] that point by accident. What were they actually trying ...
I can't believe I actually still say the word exploded.
What did - what were they actually trying to blow up in the air?
This was done, from the air, with a depth bomb, in 1987.
Did they fish?
Not with a deep bomb!
They can't be the depth bomb of a bloody submarine. It's an act of war.
Point! [Bond]
Not in the Libyan conflict or something was it?
Libya had submarines?
In 1987, a US Air Force pilot, on a mission to bomb Libya, confused the island for an enemy submarine.
And threw depth bombs on it.
In how many seconds would it have taken him to go, "They got submarines? No Pft, we will leave it at that time."
But also ... no, no, no. If he was going to bomb Libya and he had deep bombs ...
They must have had submarines, or why should he have been carrying deep bombs?
Otherwise he would have hit it with a conventional bomb.
It's a reasonable point. I can't dispute the logic there.
So there is ...
Isn't it a very wet country?
No.
I have had a look while you guys talked about that on the referrals and the references on it.
Was it necessary?
There is a bit of a dispute about this. It has been removed from the article a few times to go ...
"It's definitely a youth story."
But there is a reference in "the Independent" to it. There is a reference in various other news sources.
All of them just say "it happened".
And I wonder if it is actually true or whether there are some local legends that are made by the newspapers
Everyone has been referred to each other.
Yes.
That's why it doesn't make sense.
Yes. There is a small chance he dropped a conventional bomb.
Or a massive chance, I think as you say ...
Yes, it wasn't actually happening.
The Independent says the Sun reported today ... The Sun says Daily Mirror reported today ...
The Daily Mirror went. Yes okay, is ...
What happened today. Someone blew a rock in the air. Fantastic.
Fernando he said he is no more.
And from what we know. The depth of this particular thing would be eight meters.
Yes
You do not need to spend a depth of eight meters.
No! Otherwise I would pull a gun and start shooting.
You throw bottles on it.
Where did you go?
If you could depth blow up eight feet, you wouldn't have a boat anymore.
You can send people your finger at eight meters.
Top Gun. Just go fly upside down, over the top of it. Flip the bird on the way down.
You can make reference now!
I saw Top Gun last night for the first time in my life.
I saw a movie today!
God.
What happened in 2000?
Someone put all those pieces back together.
I say it was un-bombed. Went out again.
Oh! I'll give you that point for that. It was close to outbreaks.
There was seismic activity.
(Groans)
# I'm on the verge ...
It wasn't quite there.
So what did Italy do?
Because of course it's not Sicily anymore, it's the nation of Italy. What did they do ...
Surrendered!
Italy.
Went and parked next to it, with a flag hanging over the side of the boat, ready to go ...
Ooh. A little bit longer than that.
What? In fact stood on what it was ...
Yes, basically. Have one point. [Bond]
In fact, yeah, since it's going to be, erm ...
Yes, it will be an exclusion, isn't it?
So the actual bubbling material is at the bottom. Just push up the dried column.
Dried! Cooled column.
Did they cap it so it was over the ground and then demanding it?
Chris, out of all, was closest. They sent a diver down and put a flag under the water on it.
So then as when it turned out ...
Italy. I respect it. It's pretty cool
As a Scrapheap challenge both come around the corner of the Mediterranean
Just an Italian, just waving.
[frustrated cry]
Right. erm,
Ah, at what point.
can we get funds for this? Because it is just such a glorious disclosure.
As the flag goes out. Just as it gets above.
Just as they are about to start playing, there really is Uppy down the Italian hymn that they've got.
Out there comes Union Jack.
[Cheering]
The Italian man just flakes off.
Sean Connery nods and runs away in his DB5 shaped boat.
No, if Connery did, just like Union Jack came out, another ... a Scottish flag.
St. Andrew's Cross.
See what they should have done is just laser cut it to the rock.
Hmmmm.
Argue with it!
But! Erosion was a problem already.
As we have previously established.
He's right you know it.
There have been foreign things because they have all the bases in the Pacific, they do not, it is man-made islands.
They could just sail in there, put some signs around it.
Pump the water out and start throwing concrete on this bastard until it is actually large enough.
Compared to regenerated items in Japan ...
Make a Dubai on it.
Yeah!
Do it in the shape of my face.
Has like a nose shaped volcano in the middle of it.
Well there is that in Dubai, there is no where there is that guy cutting his name into channels.
Doesn't he? That you can see from the room.
And then turned it over.
They are no longer there.
They are cut in and somehow they got ... not paved but regenerated.
Because there is not much water out there, let's face it
If the island rises again, it's almost certainly going to be within ...
"The island will rise again!"
Thanks.
If the island ... appears over the waves again, because of modern treaties ...
Who wants rights to it now?
Is it in international waters?
No, not anymore.
- It's in territorial waters? -- Yes.
- Is it Italian territorial waters? -- Like that.
- It's Italy's. - Point. [Ding]. Simple as that.
"It's just a small island. We're not going to have a big fight over it."
These are words that will be spotted on a piece of paper within the next five years.
So they said "That's yours"?
I think you could choose to interpret it as so.
Ooh, so it's like when it first?
For scrapheap!
At the end of the show, congratulations Chris.
You win this week. I think pretty clear
Well I think Brannan offered a fight in the end.
It was close, it was close.
(It is my.)
Congratulations, you win a patch on the Somerset marsh,
that has been filled with fatty fish,
previously owned by a documentary maker and a white rapper.
Oh God.
Jesus.
Continue. Come on.
It is Michael Moore and Macklemore's mackerel moss.
You enjoy your time on it.
Thanks to Chris Joel.
Woohoo!
Gary Brannan.
Matt Gray.
Goodbye!
I've been Tom Scott, we'll see you next time.
[Translated by enjoying Tom Scott's creations!]